# [Tonyhax International](readme.md) -> Changelog

## Version 1.5.7 (10/7/2024)

* [tonyhax-international-v1.5.7](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.7i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.7.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

* Bug fix: v1.5.6 introduced a regression that caused some games to send an empty GameID string. This has been addressed with better boot file parsing for GameID.

## Version 1.5.6 (10/6/2024)

* [tonyhax-international-v1.5.6](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.6i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.6.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

* Now that I actually have a GameID compatible device (Bitfunx PSXMemCard), I was able to further test GameID support (which was originally developed and then tested by [others](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/issues/64) before implementing it into the official releases). I noticed that for some games which do not have the boot file in the root directory (i.e. `TEKKEN3\SLUS_004.02;1`) the extremely long filename causes some invalid characters in the `index.txt` of the GameID device. This is just a visual thing, and didn't impact any functionality of GameID or the save files themselves. This was fixed so that Tonyhax International now strips any parent directories and only sends the boot file name itself (i.e.`SLUS_004.02;1`) instead during GameID transmission.

* Similar to above, I also noticed that early Japanese `PSX.EXE` titles were sending only the serial product code and ending (i.e `000.01;1` for Ridge Racer (Japan)) as the GameID, and that is what was written in the `index.txt`. Again, while this doesn't impact any functionality of GameID or the saves, it's not correct so now Tonyhax International sends the fully reconstructed boot file properly (i.e. `SLPS_000.01;1`).

* **Please note that due to the above 2 changes, you may need to edit your `index.txt` file on your GameID device if you used a game that was affected, to point to the game's memory card image generated by a previous version of Tonyhax International. You will not need to do this again for future Tonyhax International updates.**

* GameID devices are now detected earlier in the Tonyhax International loader. The reason for this is if you use the [FreePSXBoot exploit](freepsxboot-exploit.md) on a GameID device, you don't need to remove the GameID device from the console before booting a game (since GameID switches the memory card image), unlike normal FreePSXBoot memory cards. The `REMOVE THE FREEPSXBOOT MEMORY CARD FROM YOUR CONSOLE... BEFORE BOOTING ANY GAME!` now does not show if you have a GameID device in slot 1 of the console for the FreePSXBoot method.

* Updated [FreePSXBoot documentation](freepsxboot-exploit.md) with info on how to use it with GameID compatible memory cards.

* Updated [GameID documentation](gameid.md) with instructions on how to use a Bitfunx PSXMemCard with GameID.

* Improved the [PS2 Hardware bug software-based fix documentation](ps2-80-minute-cd-rs.md).

* Cleaned up the Tonyhax vs Tonyhax International [diff](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/tree/master/docs/tonyhax-vs-tonyhax-international-diffs) to be more clear about code changes in comparison to the original Tonyhax loader.

## Version 1.5.5 (9/27/2024)

* [tonyhax-international-v1.5.5](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.5i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.5.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

* Fixed [GameID support](gameid.md) for Eisei Meijin (Japan) (Rev 1) (thanks to the bug report by [@sh06un](https://github.com/sh06un)). Added support for a few more PSX.EXE titles as well, and updated my [library](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/blob/master/loader/gameid-psx-exe.c) with more documentation.

* GameID detection happens quicker now then before.

## Version 1.5.4 (9/16/2024)

* [tonyhax-international-v1.5.4](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.4i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.4.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

* Improved [GameID support](gameid.md). More (nearly all) `PSX.EXE` games are now supported for GameID by my new [library](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/blob/master/loader/gameid-psx-exe.c) (please use it Unirom people!). MemCardPro 2 now works, fixed all timing issues related to talking with GameID. Big thanks to everyone who reports [issues](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/issues) and helped with testing.

* Due to user request, I have re-introduced a new and improved PS2 hardware bug software fix for 80 minute CD-Rs with additional [info](ps2-80-minute-cd-rs.md).

* [Modified](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/blob/master/docs/ram-setups.md) RAM layout to handle a larger EXE decompressed by Nicholas Noble's brilliant [PS1 packer](https://github.com/pcsx-redux/support?tab=readme-ov-file).

* Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu '95 (Japan) (Rev 0) now works again, as it did in v1.5.2 and below.

* Added better debug variables/settings for use by myself during testing.

## Version 1.5.3 (9/2/2024)

* [tonyhax-international-v1.5.3](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.3i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.3.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

* [GameID support](gameid.md) for MemCardPro/SD2PSX. Additionally, Tonyhax International is the first to support early Japanese games (with 'PSX.EXE' bootfile) with GameID. Big thanks to the [testers](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/issues/64) [@lzibeti](https://github.com/lzibeti) and [@kimbapslice](https://github.com/kimbapslice)!

* [Modified](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/blob/master/docs/ram-setups.md) RAM layout to handle a larger decompression by PS1 packer

* Implemented a fix to work-around a [29 year old bug](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/issues/161) in the game [Kileak, The Blood (Japan)](http://redump.org/disc/14371/) which caused previous versions of Tonyhax International and all versions of the original Tonyhax to not boot it successfully.

* Implemented the same functions that the original Tonyhax now uses to handle ignoring the garbage SP values in the PS-X executable header.

* Integrated [psn00bsdk-builder](https://github.com/alex-free/psn00bsdk-builder) into the build system. You can now run `make toolchain` or `make toolchain deps` to build and or install the complete Tonyhax International dev environment on many Linux systems.

* Loader bug fix: closes memory card/controller input pulling for all consoles (not just Japanese ones) after reading the target boot disc.

* Removed my '80 Minute CD-R PS2 hardware bug software-fix' from the loader. I have done this because while my '80 Minute CD-R PS2 hardware bug software-fix' ensures correct reading of 80 minute CD-Rs while **inside** Tonyhax International, it can not do anything about what happens in-game after being booted. At least one game ([Street Fighter Alpha 3 (USA)](http://redump.org/disc/508/)) crashes in-game due  to the PS2 hardware bug with 80 minute/700MB CD-Rs, and that can not be fixed by my software-fix. **Please instead use my [PSX80MP](https://github.com/alex-free/psx80mp) to patch games that will be burned on 80 minute/700MB CD-Rs and played on PS2s. This is not required for using 80 minute/700MB CD-Rs on PS1 consoles.**

* Documentation clean up and improvements.


## Version 1.5.2 (6/12/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.5.2](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.2i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.2.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Added ability to [load gameshark codes from different save files on memory cards](gameshark-code-support.md) in slot 1 and slot 2. Up to 15 different save files containing GameShark codes can be on a memory card, so you can have up to 30 different sets of GameShark codes available for selection from within the loader now!

*   Updated thigsgen to v2.0.4. The default output save file name is now `TONYHAXINTGS0`. THIGSGEN releases are now distributed in the `gameshark` folder already decompressed for you, the `.deb` files remain as they are.

*   Added ability to update text in-place for `debug_write()`, implemented beautifully in the newly re-written gameshark memory card save file name select function.

*   Added official support for Beat Mania Append 3rdMix Key Disc bypass. You can boot the game with Tonyhax International directly instead of having to use an intended key disc first to do so.

*   Improved memory card formatter function's UX.

*   Modified RAM layout for larger executable decompressed size. `HAX` and `FF9` loader files are still only taking up 2 memory card slots though thanks to PS1 Packer compression.

*   Added back seperate `secondary-ff9.ld`. When using anything other then the Final Fantasy IX [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.md), you get a bit more user RAM and hence higher chance to load a target PS-EXE with `exec()` (`loadandexec()` still overcomes any such issues with overlap, but it is nice to have the full target exe loaded while the loader itself is running).

*   Loader optimizations for efficiency and size. Rewrote controller input parsing, memory card formatting, and gameshark code save file reading. Cleaned up code to use some local declarations instead of global ones when possible. Added some more comments.

*   Changed video mode switching (NTSC to PAL or PAL to NTSC) to happen as early as possible. The idea with this is we only need one call to change the video mode (instead of doing it 2 different places depending on if we are using exec() or loadandexec() bios functions based on target PS-EXE size). Not only does that save some complexity, it also just makes sense. You'd want to see PAL video in the loader if your playing a PAL game (and you have everything else setup for it to actually display correctly with a NTSC PS1 that can do video mode switching), as early as possible.

*   Releases now include `entry-bb.bin`, `entry-bb.elf`, `entry.bin`, `entry.elf`, `entry-ff9.bin`, and `entry-ff9.elf` (which are used to develop [save game exploits](save-game-exploit.md) and [gshax codes](https://alex-free.github.io/gshax-tool)). Distributing these files in the Tonyhax International releases negates the need to compile them yourself if you don't want to, and could allow more people to submit these to me.

*   Improved [documentation on RAM layout of executable](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/blob/master/docs/ram-setups.md).

*   Other [general documentation improvements](readme.md#faq).

## Version 1.5.1 (6/3/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.5.1](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.1i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.1.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Added APv1 bypass for Um Jammer Lammy (Europe) and Um Jammer Lammy (USA Demo). Added APv2 bypass for Dance Dance Revolution (USA).

----------------------------------

## Version 1.5.0 (5/28/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.5.0](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.5.0i/tonyhax-international-v1.5.0.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Fixed booting discs with FreePSXBoot exploited memory cards. The latest FreePSXBoot builder commit has a bug that interferes with Tonyhax International booting games, so I have reverted back to my [last commit](https://github.com/alex-free/FreePSXBoot/commit/9aacebc554b37867936a5d067269113e7ea3b296) in my fork which has no downsides other then it works correctly.

*   Began implementing [EDC](anti-piracy-bypass.md#edc) bypasses for games. Dance Dance Revolution (Japan) now has an EDC bypass and can be burned by any burning software. For games which don't yet have EDC bypasses you still need to burn them in RAW DAO mode to bypass the EDC check in the protected game. Please see the [anti-piracy bypass list](anti-piracy-bypass.md#list-of-protected-psx-game-discs) for compatibility.

*   Included `entry-bb.bin` and `entry.bin` in releases.

----------------------------------

## Version 1.4.9 (5/21/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.9](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.9i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.9.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Added APv1 bypasses for Wild Arms - 2nd Ignition (Japan Rev 0, Rev 1, Demo 1, and Demo 2).

*   An insane amount of work has been put into the new [anti-piracy protections list](anti-piracy-bypass.md). Every confirmed protected PSX game known is listed with information of support in Tonyhax International.

----------------------------------

## Version 1.4.8 (5/1/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.8](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.8i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.8.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Added the ability to format memory cards to the Tonyhax International loader. You can press TRIANGLE on your controller when prompted, and then select slot 1 or slot 2. **You can successfully format FreePSXBoot memory cards using this feature, and it removes the exploit so that you can use the card like normal!**

*   Improved controller input parsing.

*   Fixed some warnings in compilation.

----------------------------------

## Version 1.4.7 (4/8/2024)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.7](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.7i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.7.zip)

----------------------------------

Changes:

*   Implemented APv2 and no-swap bypasses for [Beat Mania Append GottaMix](http://redump.org/disc/3550/). Now the anti-piracy detection is disabled, and you can directly boot it from Tonyhax International instead of from an intended [Key Disc](https://remywiki.com/KEY_DISC).

*   Releases now decompress to a folder containing all files, instead of all files loosely without a parent folder.

*   Updated [my FreePSXBoot fork](https://github.com/alex-free/FreePSXBoot) to be equivalent to the latest current commit [1976b3cadf1289d92eafd4a7eaf006b29c333c12](https://github.com/brad-lin/FreePSXBoot/commit/1976b3cadf1289d92eafd4a7eaf006b29c333c12). This removes any remnants of a BIOS v2.0 limitation with the FreePSXBoot builder.

*   Updated MKPSXISO to the latest current commit [08fa69f61365a3314b98076bfe7b2f37ed9db5d3](https://github.com/Lameguy64/mkpsxiso/commit/08fa69f61365a3314b98076bfe7b2f37ed9db5d3).

* Updated the [TonyHax International GameShark GENerator (THIGSGEN)](gameshark-code-support.md) to prompt the user to "Press any key to continue..." before exiting on Windows (for a better Drag n' Drop UX **without using trash coding practices like `system("pause");`**. 

* Significant clean up of code, and implementation of [EzRe](https://github.com/alex-free/ezre) build system allowed `.deb` file creation for Linux i386 and x86_64 platforms. THIGSGEN can now be installed as a system package to Linux systems with proper package manager tracking!

* Updated `loader/insert-tonyhax-crc.sh` to use `mipsel-none-elf-objcopy`, finishing the full transition to the `mipsel-none-elf` platform tool-chain. Was just an oversight from the previous build system transition...

## Version 1.4.6 (12/16/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.6](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.6i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.6.zip)

Changes:

* Added APv1 bypasses for Panekit: Infinite Crafting Toolbox Japan Rev 1, Silent Hill Japan Rev 2, and Doko Demo Issho Demo 2 Japan.

* Fixed APv1 bypass for Doko Demo Issho Demo 1 Japan, Doko Demo Issho Japan, Metal Gear Solid Integral Japan Disc 1, and Metal Gear Solid Integral Japan Disc 2.

## Version 1.4.5 (11/25/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.5](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.5i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.5.zip)

Changes:

*   Changed toolchain from `mips-linux-gnu` to `mipsel-none-elf`. Redone [build system](build.md). Upgraded to GCC v12.2.0/Binutils v2.40. Better code size/speed optimizations.

*   Made CD_REGS address more correct by using the correct memory region (thanks Nicholas Noble!).

*   There is a [bug](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/issues/24) found in the PS1 mode of the early PS2s models supported by Tonyhax International which causes a number of PS1 games burned to a 80 minute CD-R to not boot. The affected games only boot when burned to 74 minute or 71 minute CD-Rs. This limitation applies to mod-chipped consoles as well using the normal boot process fails to start the game. The PS1 doesn't have this issue and was never effected.

Tonyhax International now can work around this PS2 specific limitation and boot any game burned to 80 minute media just as well as the PS1. Some of the confirmed problematic games that now work as of this update are listed below as examples:

- Kurushi / I.Q: Intelligent Qube
- MediEvil
- Resident Evil Director’s Cut
- Resident Evil 2 / BioHazard 2
- MegaMan X4 / RockMan X4

Any games that previously would not boot on PS2s (but did on PS1s) because of this issue now also work. If you have a chipped PS2, you can use the [Boot CD](boot-cd.md) to then successfully launch a problematic PS1 game burned to an 80 minute CD-R.

## Version 1.4.4 (11/15/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.4](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.4i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.4.zip)

Changes:

*   Implemented PS1 Packer decompression technique (massive thanks to nicholas noble for helping to get this to work)! The Tonyhax International loader now starts much faster and take up significantly less space. The memory card HAX and FF9 loader files now only takes up 2 slots instead of 4!

## Version 1.4.3 (10/21/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.3](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.3i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.3.zip)

Changes:

*   Added APv1 bypasses (allowing play of said game on non-stealth mod-chip consoles when booted with Tonyhax International) for Dancing Blade Katte ni Momotenshi II: Tears of Eden Japan, Global Force: Shin Sentou Kokka Japan Rev 0, Global Force: Shin Sentou Kokka Japan Rev 1, Global Force: Shin Sentou Kokka Japan Demo, I.Q Final Japan Demo 1, I.Q Final Japan Demo 2, Shiritsu Justice Gakuen: Nekketsu Seishun Nikki 2, Konami 80's Arcade Gallery, Lord Of Monsters Japan, Lord Of Monsters Japan Demo, Magical Tetris Challenge featuring Mickey Japan, Metal Gear Solid: Integral Japan, Panekit: Infinitive Crafting Toy Case Japan Rev 0, Pocket MuuMuu Japan,  Planet Laika Japan, PoPoRoGue Japan Rev 0, PoPoRoGue Japan Rev 1, Silent Hill Japan Rev 0, Silent Hill Japan Rev 1, Spyro The Dragon Japan, Spyro The Dragon Shokai Genteiban, Tokimeki Memorial Drama Series Vol. 3: Tabidachi no Uta, and Um Jammer Lammy Japan.

*   Beatmania featuring Dreams Come True now works on non-stealth mod-chip consoles as well as unmodified ones.

*   Added an APv2 bypass (allows playing on non-stealth mod-chip consoles and unmodified ones) for Hyper Value 2800: Hyper Pachinko.

*   Faster anti-piracy system activation and parsing for protected titles.

*   PoPoRoGue Japan Rev 0 now always works on unmodified SCPH-1000 and early SCPH-3000 consoles. There is a [bug in PoPoRoGue Japan Rev 0 that sometimes even occurs with a real game disc on unmodified hardware](https://geocities.restorativland.org/SiliconValley/Station/8269/) due to the supper buggy anti-piracy checks) thanks to the newly introduced anti-piracy bypass for this game.

## Version 1.4.2 (10/2/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.2](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.2i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.2.zip)

Changes:

*   Upgraded all APv2 bypasses to support non-stealth mod-chips! International now supports playing every known protected game which triggers protection on both non-stealth mod-chip consoles and stock consoles (APv2). Stock consoles without non-stealth mod-chips can play all known protected games using International.

*   Protected games that only trigger on non-stealth mod-chip consoles and not on stock consoles (APv1) are now supported, but only a few have bypasses added so far as of v1.4.2.

*   International is now the first soft-mod to support playing i-mode mo Issho: Doko Demo Issho Tsuika Disc and Koneko mo Issho on PAL consoles (there is a special additional protection that causes these games to lockup when detecting a PAL BIOS, but this is now bypassed by International).

*   International now supports playing King's Field Japan (before even the original Tonyhax has added support). Any other early Japanese launch titles that didn't work previously should now also work fine (PSX.EXE, no SYSTEM.CNF titles). The [english translation patch for the game](https://www.romhacking.net/translations/1067/) also works (make sure you get the [save/load screen fix for real hardware](https://www.angelfire.com/art3/weissvulf/kings_field_japanese_to_english_patch_download.html)).

*   Added APv2 bypasses for Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2000: Kaimakuban, Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2000: Ketteiban, Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2001: Ketteiban, Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2001, Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu 2002: Haru, Jikkyou Powerful Pro Yakyuu: Premium-ban, Resident Evil 3 USA Demo.

*   Added APv1 bypasses for Vandal Hearts II Japan, Dance Dance Revolution Japan, Ape Escape Japan Rev 0, Ape Escape Japan Rev 1, Ape Escape Japan Demo, Bishi Bashi Special 2, Bishi Bashi Special 2 Japan, Jikkyou Kyousouba Ikusei Simulation Game: Breeding Stud '99 Japan, Bust A Move 2: Dance Tengoku Mix, Minna no Golf 2 Japan Rev 0, Minna no Golf 2 Japan Rev 1, Final Fantasy VIII Japan, Doko Demo Issho Japan Rev 0, Doko Demo Issho Japan Rev 1, Doko Demo Issho Calpis Water Version, Doko Demo Issho Japan Demo 1, (**NOTE: I Can not find a Doko Demo Issho Japan Demo 2 CD image (PAPX 90086) http://redump.org/disc/83081/ to add support for that yet, someone please send me that ;)**).

*   Changed my SetMemSize(8) call to be more similar to original Tonyhax (which has now added SetMemSize!).

## Version 1.4.1 (9/15/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.1](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.1i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.1.zip)

Changes:

*   Implemented a small wait period between open() and read() for memory card reading as per PSX specs to prevent any other possible rare fail to read memory card issues involving the [user supplied GameShark codes feature](gameshark-code-support.md).

*   Removed a [redundant](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/issues/149) exitcritcalsection() call after the final setconf (thanks Socram8888)!

*   Added an [APv2 bypass](anti-piracy-bypass.md) for MLB 2005.

*   Cleaned up source code to be more similar to original Tonyhax.

*   Updated [MKPSXISO](https://github.com/Lameguy64/mkpsxiso) to latest commit.

## Version 1.4.0 (9/7/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.4.0](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.4.0i/tonyhax-international-v1.4.0.zip)

Changes:

*   Slight speed optimization for SCPH-1000 and early SCPH-3000 consoles.
*   Improved Memory card handling for the user supplied [GameShark](gameshark-code-support.md) code support. When no `TONYHAXINTGS` file is present on the memory card in slot 1 the read error text no longer spams multiple times.
*   Slight speed optimization when the GameShark cheat engine is installed (only zero out RAM that supports up to the hard 255 code limit).


## Version 1.3.9 (9/2/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.9](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.9i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.9.zip)

Changes:

*   Fixed a GameShark parsing bug introduced in v1.3.8 that broke the feature.
*   Added more info to the [GameShark Code](gameshark-code-support.md) page.

## Version 1.3.8 (9/2/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.8](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.8i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.8.zip)

Changes:

*   Improved memory card reading and handling for the user supplied [GameShark Codes](gameshark-code-support.md) feature. Fixes the rare `Can not read MC` issue, and also allows you to read the memory card any number of times. You can even change your mind without restarting Tonyhax International, and put in a different memory card and then read that instead of whatever previous one was already read.

*   Added support for playing the [english translation](http://redump.org/disc/37878/) of [Planet Laika](http://redump.org/disc/37878/) with one huge crevet, you can not currently apply your own [GameShark Codes](gameshark-code-support.md) via the memory card method or it will break this game (black screen after hitting the `New Game` option in the title screen). This should be addressed possible in a future update. This fixes [issue 39](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/issues/39).

*   Improved TOCPerfect build with even more size optimizations. The new [TOCPerfect Patcher](https://alex-free.github.io/tocperfect) is also linked and explained everywhere in the docs.

*   The 'CD-R Media For PSX Backups' section has been expanded into it's [own webpage](https://alex-free.github.io/psx-cdr) on [my website](https://alex-free.github.io). **Please read it!**.


## Version 1.3.7 (8/1/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.7](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.7i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.7.zip)

Changes:

* You can now use GameShark Codes with the prefixes: `E2`, `E3`, `D2`, and `D3` using the [GameShark code feature](gameshark-code-support.md).

* THIGSGEN updated to v2.0.2. 

* Stealth GameShark cheat engine updated to v1.0.4, which has been optimized for maximum performance over size.

* Size optimizations to Tonyhax International loader.

* Rewritten GameShark code type parsing functions in Tonyhax International loader.

* Updated [anti-piracy bypass](anti-piracy-bypass.md) documentation.


## Version 1.3.6 (7/26/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.6](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.6i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.6.zip)

Changes:

* Added [APv2 bypass support](anti-piracy-bypass.md) for Dance Dance Revolution 3rd Mix, Dance Dance Revolution 4th Mix, and Dance Dance Revolution 5th Mix.

* Added TOCPerfect changes for [PS1 DemoSwap Patcher v1.0.9](https://alex-free.github.io/ps1demoswap).

* Added support for building on APT based Linux distributions (I just switched to PopOS).

* Addded info on [dealing with EDC Protected games](anti-piracy-bypass.md#edc) to the [anti-piracy page](anti-piracy-bypass.md).

* Added info about non-stock mod-chips to the [anti-piracy page](anti-piracy-bypass.md).

## Version 1.3.5 (6/16/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.5](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.5i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.5.zip)

Changes:

* Fixed a serious regression introduced in v1.3.4 that caused almost all boot methods to hang at `checking game region` step.

* Added more info the the [CD-R Media For PSX Backups](#cd-r-media-for-psx-backups) section.


## Version 1.3.4 (6/14/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.4](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.4i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.4.zip)

Changes:

* Added a special [xStation ROM version](xstation.md) due to request by 
[L10N37](https://github.com/L10N37). This is actually super cool.

* Added more in-depth info to the [CD-R Media For PSX Backups](#cd-r-media-for-psx-backups) section thanks to [XxTriviumxX](https://github.com/XxTriviumxX).

* Added even more real hardware screen captures to the docs and improved documentation itself immensely with more in-depth steps (specifically related to the [FreePSXBoot exploit](freepsxboot-exploit.md) but also touched a few other pages).

* Updated [MKPSXISO](https://github.com/Lameguy64/mkpsxiso) to the latest version.

* Build system/source cleanup/comment improvements.

## Version 1.3.3 (6/5/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.3](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.3i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.3.zip)

Changes:

* Added a [APv2 bypass](anti-piracy-bypass.md) for Boku no Natsuyasumi: Summer Holiday 20th Century Japan to close this [issue](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/issues/28). Enjoy, [Bloom-Haven](https://github.com/Bloom-Haven)!!!

* Added a ton of real hardware screen captures to the docs and improved documentation itself immensely with more in-depth steps.

## Version 1.3.2 (6/3/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.2](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.2i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.2.zip)

Added APv2 bypasses for Breath of Fire IV Japan, Breath of Fire IV E3 2000/USA Beta, Capcom vs. SNK: Millennium Fight 2000 Pro Japan, Glint Glitters, Hyper Value 2800: Hanafuda, Tokimeki Memorial 2 Emotional Voice System Append Discs 1-3, Tokimeki Memorial 2 rev 0, Tokimeki Memorial 2 rev 1, and Tokimeki Memorial 2 limited edition box version.

## Version 1.3.1 (5/28/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.1](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.1i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.1.zip)

Changes:

* Fixed an issue caused by FreePSXBoot's builder program's `-fastload` option that resulted in failure to read GameShark codes from the memory card on BIOS v4.4-v4.5. This issue has now been resolved by removing that argument and having the same generate command as the original Tonyhax did.

* Fixed regressions in GameShark cheat engine due to some previous overly-aggressive optimizations.

## Version 1.3.0 (5/27/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.3.0](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.3.0i/tonyhax-international-v1.3.0.zip)

Changes:

* Added [APv2 bypasses](anti-piracy-bypass.md) for Spyro: Year Of The Dragon USA Rev 0 and USA Rev 1!

* Updated the loader ram layout from last usable 24k to last usable 32k to allow for larger executable size. Tonyhax International `HAX` and `FF9` save files now take up 4 slots instead of 3 on a PSX memory card. **PLEASE** make sure to update your save game exploit files and or gshax codes/files.

## Version 1.2.9 (5/24/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.2.9](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.9i/tonyhax-international-v1.2.9.zip)

Changes:

* Added [APv2 bypasses](anti-piracy-bypass.md) for Tron ni Kobun, NFL GameDay 2001, NFL GameDay 2001 Demo, NFL GameDay 2002, NFL GameDay 2003, NFL GameDay 2004, NFL GameDay 2005, NHL FaceOff 2001 Demo, NHL FaceOff 2001, NCAA Final Four 2001, NCAA Game Breaker 2001, NCAA Game Breaker 2001 Demo, NBA Shootout 2001, NBA Shootout 2001 Demo, NBA Shootout 2002, NBA Shootout 2002 demo, NBA Shootout 2003, NBA Shootout 2004, MLB 2002, MLB 2002 Demo, MLB 2003, MLB 2003 Demo, and MLB 2004.

## Version 1.2.8 (5/19/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.2.8](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.8i/tonyhax-international-v1.2.8.zip)

Changes:

* Added support for GameShark code types `E1` and `D1`. Tonyhax International now [supports applying the following GameShark code types](gameshark-code-support.md): `50, 80, 30, D0, E0` `D1` `E1`.

* Significantly optimized the GameShark cheat engine (now at v1.0.2) with the help of MottZilla.

## Version 1.2.7 (5/17/2023)

*   [tonyhax-international-v1.2.7](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.7i/tonyhax-international-v1.2.7.zip)

Changes:

* **REWROTE** the [GameShark functionality](gameshark-code-support.md) to support **ALL of the following GameShark code types: `50, 80, 30, D0, E0`**. This rewrite includes things like a `TONYHAXINTGS` save file checksum system, a new and improved GameShark cheat code engine, and optimizations to THIGSGEN, now at v2.0.

* Fixed an issue with the `-rom` version that would cause it to display the `Press X to boot Sony BIOS` text twice.

* Added back the PAL/European [Boot CD](boot-cd.md) image to releases since it is now useful for GameShark code support.

* Added some YouTube video tutorial links (by [Jay Time](https://www.youtube.com/@JLMtime)) to the [ROM](flashed-cheat-cart.md) and [GameShark Support](gameshark-code-support.md) pages.

## Version 1.2.6 (5/7/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.6-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.6i/tonyhax-v1.2.6-international.zip)

Changes:

* Fixed the ability to apply your own [GameShark Codes](gameshark-code-support.md) to any game you want to boot for consoles that did not have BIOS v3.0. Only consoles with BIOS v3.0 were previously working, this has now been fixed and all PSX/PS2 consoles are now confirmed working correctly.

* Expanded the amount of codes able to be applied by the anti-piracy bypass system for future-proofing.

* The Tonyhax International loader ROM version now only displays the `Press X to access the Memory Card Manager/CD Player` text when the CD drive is open when the ROM version of the loader starts for Japanese consoles as well, to match the behavior of the other USA/PAL consoles for consistency.

* Updated [PSEXE2ROM](https://alex-free.github.io/psexe2rom) and [MKPSXISO](https://github.com/lameguy64/mkpsxiso) to the latest versions.

* Updated the Tonyhax International GameShark Generator program to v1.0.2. Now you can simply drag and drop the txt file of GameShark codes directly onto the `thigsgen.exe` or `thigsgen` executable file to generate the raw save file named `TONYHAXINTGS` which contains the GameShark codes you want to load with Tonyhax International.

* Added info about how the Final Fantasy IX save exploit file being present when using the SCPH-1000 memory card manager will lock up the console (so don't use it like that :)).

## Version 1.2.5 (5/4/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.5-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.5i/tonyhax-v1.2.5-international.zip)

Changes:

* Added the ability to apply your own [GameShark Codes](gameshark-code-support.md) to any game you want to boot! Huge thanks to MottZilla's guidance on controller support as well as the original cheat engine used to power all of this.

* The Tonyhax International loader ROM version now only displays the `Press X to access the Memory Card Manager/CD Player` text when the CD drive is open when the ROM version of the loader starts, for a more clean interactive look.

## Version 1.2.4 (4/30/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.4-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.4i/tonyhax-v1.2.4-international.zip)

Changes:

* Added the ability to boot into the stock Sony BIOS from the Tonyhax International ROM version. This allows you to access the Memory Card Manager/CD Player functionallity of the stock Sony BIOS without removing the Tonyhax International flashed cheat cart from the back of your console. To use this new feature, simply start your console with the CD drive open, and with the Tonyhax International flash cart in the back of your console. Once Tonyhax International starts, press `X` on a controller when you get to the text stating to insert a disc into the console to continue.

* Added info about how the `HAX` and `FF9` save files of the Tonyhax International loader for the [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) and [Save game exploit](save-game-exploit.md) can screw up filenames in the stock Sony BIOS memory card manager (a non-fatal, just annoying issue).

## Version 1.2.3 (4/28/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.3-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.3i/tonyhax-v1.2.3-international.zip)

Changes:

* Optimized out many unnecessary functions, improving load speed of games slightly.

* (Really) fixed an issue with the `build.sh` script due to missing template folders in the `gshax` directory since the last update. Git is dumb about not being able to include empty folders so the `build.sh` script just creates them if they don't exit now.

* Added info related to a bug in the GameShark Lite itself.

[About previous versions](changelog.md).

## Version 1.2.2 (4/26/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.2-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.2i/tonyhax-v1.2.2-international.zip)

Changes:

* The Tonyhax International loader now does `SetMemSize(8)`, `SysInitMemory (0xA000E000, 0x2000)`, and `InitDefInt(3)`. This makes it much more similar to how the real PSX BIOS boots games, and it fixes all known issues with booting games via the [GameShark Code](gameshark-code.md) method. 

* Fixed a race condition that rarely effected booting games via the [flashed cheat cart](flashed-cheat-cart.md) and [GameShark Code](gameshark-code.md). The issue was that sometimes the console BIOS would execute CD commmands before starting the ROM too closely to when Tonyhax International would call the first CD INIT on startup. This issue also could happen in GSHAX, when a game was sending CD commands right before the GSHAX exploit would trigger and then starting the Tonyhax International loader. The issue previously manifested as being stuck on the first `Initializing CD` text forever.

* Updated [GSHAX Tool](https://alex-free.github.io/gshax-tool) to v2.0.1, which auto-calculates the MIPS assembly binary offset during code generation in the build step.

* Fixed an issue with the `build.sh` script due to missing template folders in the `gshax` directory since the last update.

* Improved documentation.


## Version 1.2.1 (3/28/2023)

*   [tonyhax-1.2.1-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.1i/tonyhax-v1.2.1-international.zip)

Changes:

* Updated [GSHAX Tool](https://alex-free.github.io/gshax-tool) to v2.0. All [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) codes have been updated to improved versions. Usage has changed for the WipEout and Parasite Eve codes!

* Thanks to the new GSHAX Tool v2.0 update, a [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) code for Ridge Racer is now available.

* The first stage loaders: `entry.bin` and `entry-bb.bin` are now included in each release to aid in the development of [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) and [save game exploits](save-game-exploit.md).

* Added the missing source code to the GameShark cheat engine that MottZilla wrote to the source tree, as well as instructions on assembling it (available at `docs/mottzilla-gameshark-engine.txt`). It is not however 'dynamically generated' by the build system, yet... The compiled version is still hardcoded as an unsigned char array.

[About previous versions](changelog.md).

## Version 1.2.0 (3/17/2023)

*   [tonyhax-v1.2.0-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.2.0i/tonyhax-v1.2.0-international.zip)

Changes:

* Fixes lockup/freezing that only occurred in specific games (i.e. Tekken 3) when using the FreePSXBoot exploit boot method. Now however, **Before starting any backup or import disc in the loader YOU MUST REMOVE THE FREEPSXBOOT MEMORY CARD to ensure successful booting of your backup or import disc. THIS APPLIES TO BOTH SLOT 1 AND SLOT 2 FREEPSXBOOT CARDS.** This enables more games to work through this boot method and simplifies the loader. The loader will tell you to remove the FreePSXBoot memory card as well now.

## Version 1.1.9 (3/9/2023)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.9-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.9i/tonyhax-v1.1.9-international.zip)

Changes:

* Fixes potential lockups/freezing right before booting.

* Fixed the Cool Boarders 4 save game exploit not working correctly (thank you [AngelDavil88](https://gbatemp.net/threads/tonyhax-international-backup-loader-for-all-japanese-usa-and-pal-ps1-consoles-early-ps2-consoles-gameshark-cheat-cart-flasher.615892/post-10067707) for pointing this out)!

* The save game file template 'hack' I was using has been replaced with a proper equivalent for the 24KB `tonyhax.exe` maximum file size RAM setup currently in use (thanks [Shendo](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/viewtopic.php?f=66&t=3967&p=22130#p22130))!

* A new [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) code for Parasite Eve USA is now [available](gameshark-code.md#parasite-eve-usa).

* [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) codes are all now **auto-generated** in the build step thanks to my new program [GSHAX Tool](https://alex-free.github.io/gshax-tool).
 
* Added more info on the [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) code method, specifically on which exact GameShark model versions are useful with this boot method (even though all GameShark model versions work regardless of their usefulness).

* The documentation is now only in markdown format (the website is only using auto-generated HTML from said markdown via GitHub pages now). The pandoc requirement hence has been removed from the build step.

* The `build-tool-chain.sh` script now automatically compiles MKPSXISO at the end of building the MIPS toolchain for the PSX.

* Updated [MKPSXISO](https://github.com/lameguy64/mkpsxiso) to the latest commit as of 3/6/2023.

* Added info to the [Boot CD](boot-cd.md) documentation that explains how to use specific GameShark cartridge or GameShark CD versions to start the Tonyhax International Boot CD.

## Version 1.1.8 (1/11/2023)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.8-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.8i/tonyhax-v1.1.8-international.zip)

Changes:

* A new and exciting boot method known as [GameSharkHAX](gameshark-code.md) has been added to Tonyhax International. This is a brand new 'way in' to the Tonyhax International loader for all PS1 and PS2 consoles that are supported by Tonyhax International (SCPH-1000-SCPH-39004). It uses GameShark codes to boot the Tonyhax International loader off a memory card file **mid-game.**
 
* Condensed the [Boot CD](boot-cd.md) back to just one BIN+CUE file set. It is not actually necessary to have 2 different versions of the Boot CD, the single BIN+CUE file set in all Tonyhax International releases from here on out will work in every supported use case.

* The documentation has been split into multiple markdown and html files. This makes it much more easy to maintain for me, and easier for you to comprehend, read, and share. The 'all in one html file' style before became unmanageable due to the sheer amount of info that has been added since the initial release.

## Version 1.1.7 (1/3/2023)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.7-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.7i/tonyhax-v1.1.7-international.zip)

Changes:

*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Final Fantasy IX Japan, Final Fantasy IX USA Rev 0, and Final Fantasy IX USA Rev 1 thanks to Patchouli ([karehaani](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=6714))!

* **Fixed the `tonyhax.mcs` and `HAX` loader files** for the [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) boot method. Previously, only the `HAX` loader file _copied via uLaunchElf specifically to a memory card_ was working due to an error accommodating the larger size of the Tonyhax International loader since v1.1.3. **This issue has now been resolved and everything works as expected with both the `tonyhax.mcs` and `HAX` loader files as they are in the correct 'linked' format (you can see this in the memcardrex software for example)**.

* Updated [crosstool-ng](https://crosstool-ng.github.io/) to the latest version. Fixed and updated the crosstool-ng config file used to build the Tonyhax International toolchain to work with the latest version. The new config file also makes a more tuned PSX toolchain. The toolchain is set to be tuned for the r3000, for little-endian, for soft-float (no hardware float support), and for a 32-bit ABI. This means the previous CFLAGS setting these options explicitly are no longer necessary and have been removed from the various `variable.mk*` files in the source.

* Updated the APv2 decompilation documentation (from the latest official Tonyhax).

* Added more info on the RAM setups used by Tonyhax International and how they work. This information can be found in the `ram-setups.txt` file in the `docs` directory of the source.

* Substantially rewrote the documentation with more information.

## Version 1.1.6 (12/10/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.6-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.6i/tonyhax-v1.1.6-international.zip)

Changes:

* Implemented **many speed and size optimizations** for the tonyhax international loader. Can **boot games quicker in some cases**.

* Applied this [commit](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/commit/7f22506857afe66c4f8419ee2e73f62306a125da) from OG [TonyHax](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax) to better simulate how the BIOS boots games. As of 12/10/2022, _where applicable_ Tonyhax International is current with the original Tonyhax.

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in Strider 2, Rockman X5, Rockman X6, Rockman 5, Dance Dance Revolution: Best Hits, Dance Dance Revolution 2nd Remix, Dance Dance Revolution 2nd Remix: Append Club Version Vol. 1, Dance Dance Revolution 2nd Remix: Append Club Version Vol. 2.

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in i-mode mo Issho: Doko Demo Issho Tsuika Disc (thanks [M4x1mumRez](https://github.com/M4x1mumReZ)).

* Added information on games with additional [EDC Checks](anti-piracy-bypass.md#edc) found in some games (most notably such checks are found in the Dance Dance Revolution games that I've just added support for bypassing their additional anti-piracy measures). You must burn games containing EDC Checks in a specific way for them to work.

## Version 1.1.5 (12/3/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.5-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.5i/tonyhax-v1.1.5-international.zip)

Changes:

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in Koneko mo Issho.

* Fixed entry.S header temp buffer address.

* More size optimizations (specifcally in ap-bypass.c).

## Version 1.1.4 (12/2/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.4-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.4i/tonyhax-v1.1.4-international.zip)

Changes:

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in Pop'n Music: Disney Tunes, Beatmania featuring Dreams Come True, Dancing Stage featuring Dreams Come True, Oha-Studio Dance Dance Revolution, Dance Dance Revolution: Disney's Rave, Dance Dance Revolution: Extra Mix, and Beatmania Best Hits (thanks [trappedinlimbo](https://www.psx-place.com/members/trappedinlimbo.156719/)).

* Controller input in Japanese consoles reverted to proper silent debug_write message polling as in v1.1.2 and below.

## Version 1.1.3 (11/30/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.3-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.3i/tonyhax-v1.1.3-international.zip)

Changes:

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in Crash Bash/Crash Bandicoot Carnival, Koko Hore! Pukka, Love Hina: Ai wa Kotoba no Naka ni, and Love Hina 2: Kotoba wa Konayuki no You ni (thanks [M4x1mumRez](https://github.com/M4x1mumReZ)).

* Rewrote the Building From Source instructions for clarity and simplicity.

* Fixed Pop'n Music 6's anti-piracy bypass and 'boots to black screen' issue.

* Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) in Pop'N Music: Animation Melody (thanks [trappedinlimbo](https://www.psx-place.com/members/trappedinlimbo.156719/)).

* Merged **all new applicable changes** from the latest [O.G. Tonyhax](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax) where applicable (as of 11/30/2022 this is up to date with the current source tree). See commits [8284633c435a9325dcfd7028d9788bacae94de69](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/commit/8284633c435a9325dcfd7028d9788bacae94de69), [b72b08e5ba814196f07993491b483e5ec8e3fc93](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/commit/b72b08e5ba814196f07993491b483e5ec8e3fc93), and [8934a2bb614973064e45a6638e03fd0c7426e5fc](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/commit/8934a2bb614973064e45a6638e03fd0c7426e5fc) for full details.

* Changed everything to be cleaner and closer to the latest source tree of the original Tonyhax. There will now be a diff comparing the `loader` directory of the current Tonyhax `loader` directory with the Tonyhax International `loader` directory, enabling easy comparison/documention/review of the current code differences between the fork and upstream. You can find this diff in the `docs/tonyhax-vs-tonyhax-international-diffs` directory in the source tree.


## Version 1.1.2 (11/9/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.2-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.2i/tonyhax-v1.1.2-international.zip)

Changes:

*	Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) found in all versions of Yu-Gi-Oh! Forbidden Memories, Cool Boarders 2001, Disney's The Emperor's New Grove, Resident Evil: Survivor, and Tomba! 2.

*	Added support for bypassing the [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) found in Pocket Jiman, thanks to the code by [m4x1mumrez](https://gbatemp.net/members/m4x1mumrez.610331/) generated with [APrip](https://alex-free.github.io/aprip).

*	Fixes a regression in version 1.1.1 that could possibly cause Japanese consoles to freeze before booting the game completely.


## Version 1.1.1 (10/29/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.1-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.1i/tonyhax-v1.1.1-international.zip)

Changes:

*	A completely new system to bypass [additional anti-piracy copy protection routines](anti-piracy-bypass.html) found in some later PSX games **which works on all consoles, including Japanese ones** has replaced the old Socram8888 bios patch. This improves Tonyhax International by giving it the ability to play many more games then ever before, and makes support just as good on the Japanese consoles. Huge thanks to MottZilla for the method to implement gameshark codes in Tonyhax International, which provides this functionality.
*	Optimized Tonyhax International's loader for size and speed. Cleaned up source tree.
*	Rewrote documentation in markdown.

## Version 1.1.0 (9/25/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.1.0-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.1.0i/tonyhax-v1.1.0-international.zip)

Changes:

*   Updated to FreePSXBoot v2.1 (my own [fork](https://github.com/alex-free/FreePSXBoot) for now so that it compiles on [Fedora](https://github.com/brad-lin/FreePSXBoot/pull/97)). This means among other things that those 'fake' 64KB chinese PS1 memory cards now work with the FreePSXBoot images.
*   **Tonyhax International [FreePSXBoot](freepsxboot-exploit.md) memory cards no longer need to be removed after booting the loader if they are in slot 2 of the console.** I have completely removed Socram8888's old FreePSXBoot patch. The new 'memory card timeout to disable' patch from the FreePSXBoot builder is now used instead of the 'pretend memory card is corrupted' patch from the original Tonyhax. The new patch works with all games, some games did not like the old patch method used. **The new patch also works correctly on every single PS1 BIOS version, including BIOS v1.0, v1.1, and v2.0.** The old patch never worked on BIOS v1.0, 1.1, or 2.0.
*   Added tonyhax\_scph-3000\_v1.1\_slot2.mcr, tonyhax\_scph-3000\_v1.1\_slot1.mcr, tonyhax\_scph-3000\_v2.1\_slot2.mcr, and tonyhax\_scph-3000\_v2.1\_slot1.mcr FreePSXBoot memory card files (as there are actually 2 different BIOS versions found in SCPH-3000 consoles).
*   All FreePSXBoot images are now created with the `-fastload` option on to improve how fast Tonyhax International starts with the FreePSXBoot exploit. The `-fastload` option also provides that cool loading screen you can see in [Unirom](https://unirom.github.io).
*   Japanese PlayStations with **VC2 and VC3** CDROM drive controllers are now re-calibrated to improve CD tracking and read performance for these CDROM controllers. VC1 and VC0 do not have equivalent commands, hardware, or even a need for this really since Bias and Gain can only be set manually.
*   TOCPerfect changes have been merged from [PS1 DemoSwap Patcher](https://alex-free.github.io/ps1demoswap).
*   Removed documentation on PS1 CD drive repair as it is getting it's own webpage/document in the near future. Reduced the size of releases dramatically by using better compressed images in this document (thanks [Berion](https://www.psx-place.com/members/berion.1431/) of [PSX-Place](https://psx-place.com)).
*   Added notes about video mode switching support on PS2s using [PS1VModeNeg v1.0.1](https://www.psx-place.com/threads/ps1vmodeneg-by-sp193.25050/) (thanks [Berion](https://www.psx-place.com/members/berion.1431/) of [PSX-Place](https://psx-place.com))
*   Cleaned up source tree and we are back to a consistent coding style (Socram8888 would be [proud](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/pull/129)).
*   Stock (non-modchipped) SCPH-1000 and early SCPH-3000 can now play **any real import discs or backup CD-Rs of games containing anti-piracy detection (excluding PAL region games that also contain libcrypt protection)** with 100% compatibility, even better then the anti-piracy bypass for American/European consoles actually.

## Version 1.0.8 (8/26/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.0.8-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.0.8i/tonyhax-v1.0.8-international.zip)

Changes:

*   Fixed the anti anti-piracy functionality regression for American/European consoles. You can now play backup or import PS1 games that have anti-piracy features (i.e. Dino Crisis) without issue on all American console and European consoles.
*   Removed the PAL licensed ROM flasher CD image, as it is not actually not needed. Any console that supports cheat carts (SCPH-1000 up to SCPH-750X models) will boot a CD-R burned via the current `tonyhax-rom-flasher.bin+tonyhax-rom-flasher.cue` files just fine.
*   Updated documentation on burning PS1 backups. Added info on games containing anti-piracy and or libcrypt protection. Also added info on replacing and modifying PS1 CD drives and changing bias/gain/laser resistance values.
*   Cleaned up build proccess and source tree.

## Version 1.0.7 (8/7/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.0.7-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.0.7i/tonyhax-v1.0.7-international.zip)

Changes:

*   The Tonyhax International loader memory card save file **is now named `HAX` instead of `BESLEM-99999TONYHAX` to allow for more exploitable games**. You will need to update both the save game exploit file for your game as well as the Tonyhax International loader file to use v1.0.7 if you are using a previou version of the save game exploit file for your game that is already on a memory card.
*   Removed the SetSessionSuperUltraCommandSmash and replaced it with [MottZilla](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=867)'s new method of re-reading TOC data for VC0 A, VC0 B, and VC1 A CDROM Controller BIOS firmwares. **This change reduces the time it takes to re-read the TOC data on the backup CD-R or import PS1 disc from 2-10 minutes on the SCPH-1000, SCPH-3000, and some SCPH-3500 japanese consoles to around 30 seconds with 100% reliability!**
*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Tekken 3 Japan/USA/PAL thanks to Patchouli ([karehaani](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=6714)) and [krystalgamer](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/pull/20).
*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Tekken 2 Japan (rev 1 only), USA (rev 0 only), and PAL thanks to Patchouli ([karehaani](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=671)) and [krystalgamer](https://github.com/socram8888/tonyhax/pull/20).
*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Downhill Snow Japan thanks to Patchouli ([karehaani](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=6714)).

## Version 1.0.6 (8/3/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.0.6-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.0.6i/tonyhax-v1.0.6-international.zip)

Changes:

*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Castlevania Chronicle NTSC-J (only the first release, rev 1 is not working right now) (Alex Free) and 1500 Lite Series Castrol Honda Super Bike Racing NTSC-J (Alex Free).
*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2 NTSC-J (MottZilla) and 1500 Lite Series Castrol Honda VTR (MottZilla).

## Version 1.0.5 (7/27/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.0.5-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.0.5i/tonyhax-v1.0.5-international.zip)

Changes:

*   Added [save game exploit](save-game-exploit.html) support for Doki Oki (NTSC-J), Crash Bandicoot 3 (NTSC-J), and The Legend Of Heroes I&II (NTSC-J). All these save game exploits were found by [Patchouli (karehaani)](http://www.psxdev.net/forum/memberlist.php?mode=viewprofile&u=6714).

## Version 1.0.4 (7/23/2022)

*   [tonyhax-v1.0.4-international](https://github.com/alex-free/tonyhax/releases/download/v1.0.4i/tonyhax-v1.0.4-international.zip)
